TERMINOLOGY WEEK 1


Compliance is adhering to internal standards and external regulations and enables organizations to avoid fines and security breaches.

Security frameworks are guidelines used for building plans to help mitigate risks and threats to data and privacy.

Security controls are safeguards designed to reduce specific security risks. They are used with security frameworks to establish a strong security posture.

Security posture is an organization’s ability to manage its defense of critical assets and data and react to change. A strong security posture leads to lower risk for the organization.

A threat actor or malicious attacker is any person or group presenting a security risk. This risk can relate to computers, applications, networks, and data.

An internal threat can be a current or former employee, an external vendor, or a trusted partner who poses a security risk. At times, an internal threat is accidental. For example, an employee who accidentally clicks on a malicious email link would be considered an accidental threat. Other times, the internal threat actor intentionally engages in risky activities, such as unauthorized data access.

Network security is keeping an organization's network infrastructure secure from unauthorized access. This includes data, services, systems, and devices stored in an organization’s network.

Cloud security ensures that assets stored in the cloud are appropriately configured or set up correctly, and access to those assets is limited to authorized users. The cloud is a network comprising a collection of servers or computers that store resources and data in remote physical locations known as data centers that can be accessed via the Internet. Cloud security is a growing subfield of cybersecurity that focuses explicitly on protecting data, applications, and infrastructure in the cloud.

Programming is a process that can be used to create a specific set of instructions for a computer to execute tasks. These tasks can include:
- Automation of repetitive tasks (e.g., searching a list of malicious domains)
- Reviewing web traffic 
- Alerting suspicious activity